---
layout: post
title: Sin and the City
categories: Opinion
---

Are city-folk or rural-folk more virtuous? The evidence is mixed, but several compelling theories point towards the latter.

### Pro-urban 
- Most urbanites voted for Hillary, while those outside cities [pulled for Trump](https://www.npr.org/2016/11/14/501737150/rural-voters-played-a-big-part-in-helping-trump-defeat-clinton). To the extent that you find the president to be an Agent of Evil, cities look more virtuous.
- People in cities drive less and consequently emit less carbon than those in rural areas. If you are concerned about climate change, [city-dwellers are doing better](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2009/mar/23/city-dwellers-smaller-carbon-footprints).
- Most R&D spending occurs in cities, leading to innovations that grow the economy. Searching for and sharing knowledge are high virtues. 

### Pro-rural
- Income inequality is [lower for rural housholds](https://www.census.gov/library/stories/2017/11/income-poverty-rural-america.html) than urban households. If you believe that a more equal community is a more virtuous one, then rural areas should win.
- [Religious fervor](https://news.gallup.com/poll/7960/age-religiosity-rural-america.aspx) and [charitable giving](https://philanthropy.iupui.edu/files/research/2010spring_ruralurbanphilanthropy.pdf) (as a % of income) are greater outside cities, both markers of virtue.
- Christ was born in a small town and died in a city.

---
## Plausible theories
It's not hard to come up with stories about why city-dwellers might behave less virtuously than their rural cousins.
1. People who move to cities typically do so to further their careers or to enjoy a greater variety of food and entertainment. The first of these may be motivated by greed; the second by gluttony.
2. People in cities can behave badly with only a small cost to their reputation, while immoral behavior in a small town is policed by the entire community.
3. Work in cities is often of dubious moral or economic value (e.g., consulting, politics, entertainment, advertising, law). Farming results in immense consumer surplus and its success varies directly with the health of the land and the community. On the other hand, financiers can profit from busts, lawyers from bankruptcies, and entertainers from moral degredation, so people in these professions are less invested in the health of the community.
4. Solitude and contemplation are essential inputs to a virtuous life, and they are comparatively scarce in cities.
5. Deep, sustained familial ties are essential inputs to a virtuous life, and they are uncommon in cities because many residents have moved from elsewhere.
6. Urbanites must signal their status to many strangers, so they are more likely to spend, dress, travel, and post on Instagram conspicuously, leading to a culture of materialism. Rural people can wear plain cloths and live simply, their reputations based on their deeds. They accordingly have more resources to devote towards the pursuit of virtue.
7. Home owners have an incentive to maintain their building and to invest in their community because it will improve their property value. Renters have no such incentive.

Theories 2-6 point towards the idea of virtue as a form of human capital that is hard to signal. It only makes sense to invest in virtue if you expect to be around other people long enough that they will be able to guage how much virtue you really have.


